# Jobstats
Job Insights using Adzuna API


In Today’s era, looking for a job is like a rollercoaster ride. As a team, we love using the awesome power of data science technology to help find people their dream jobs. The theme of the project is to apply data management techniques to solve an interesting real-world problem. We as a team wanted to work on the project which provides insights of problems related to job search. Job Search websites present a great opportunity to bolster student’s search for their ideal job opening. The main aim of the project is to extract the Job and Organization insights from Adzuna Website. Adzuna is a smarter, more transparent job search engine that helps you dodge thousands of irrelevant jobs so you can zero in on the right role faster. For the Data Collection process, we are utilizing the public job search API of Adzuna which provides access to important datasets of companies’ job posting and job description in the USA. Accordingly, we have stored the dynamic datasets into Apache Spark dataframe. After storing the data, we can perform various parallel data processing techniques using RDD (Resilient Distributed Dataset) and can visualize the exploratory analysis of data using various charts and plotting to help people easily interpret the findings easily. Moreover by performing Data Analysis, we can extract beneficial insights which can help many freshers and employees to search for the job as per their profile and interests such as “Which Job Category is trending”, “How many Jobs per Category”, “Which is the hottest job per country”, “Which state has more jobs”, “Average salary per job categories”, “Company ratings”, “Counts of jobs as per approximate salary”, etc. At the end, we can design an intuitive search-based User-Interface using a high level web framework like Django and dynamic web page using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS and javascript for the solution which allows the user to explore our dataset.
